Author: Danny Lillard
Date: 5/21/2021
Description: Notes from the knowledge given in: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HXV3zeQKqGY, 
             for information on queries look at the file: queries.sql

Notes:

What is a database?
    Any collection of related information.
        Phonebook, shopping list, A company's client base

DBMS (We use MySQL):
    Software that helps users create and maintain a database.
    Security, backups, importing/exporting, concurrency, works with software.

C.R.U.D:
    Create Read, Update, Delete.
    The 4 main things that we do with a database.

2 Types of Databases:
    Relational (SQL):
        Organizes data into one or more tables.
            Each table has columns and rows.
            A unique key identifies each row.
            Mostly standardized.
    Non-Relational (NoSQL):
        Organizes data in any other way but a traditional table.
            Key-value
            Documents
            Graphs

Primary Key:
    Unique element that defines a row.
    Surrogate Key: No mapping to the real world.
    Natural Key: Has mapping to the real world, SSN.

Foreign Key:
    Links us to another table.

See file: creation.sql, for table creation.
See file load.sql for table loading, this video does NOT cover loading in a csv file,
need to create an example of that.

See file: queries.sql for notes over:
    basic queries, wildcards(new!), union, joins, nested queries, on delete,
    and triggers(new!). 

ER Diagrams:
    Entity: 
        A object we want to model & store info about.
            e.g. student
    Attributes:
        Specific pieces of information about an Entity.
            e.g. name, grade, gpa, primary key
        Composite Attributes: Having multiple attributes.
            e.g. fname lname == name
        Multi-valued Attributes: An attribute that can have more than one value.
            e.g. clubs, a student is in multiple clubs.
        Derived Attributes: An attribute that can be derived from others, not stored.
            e.g. has honors

    Relationship Entity:
        Verb that links two entities.
    Total participation:
        All members must participate must participate in the relationship.
            e.g. student is in a school.
    Relationship Cardinality:
        1:1
        1:N
        M:N relations.
    Weak Entity:
        An entity that cannot be uniquely described by its attributes alone.
            e.g. An exam
    Identifying Relationship:
        A relationship that serves to uniquely identify the weak entity.
            e.g. has
    